IRM FAQ
-------

When things just don't go as they should.

Q: I get a blank screen at some stage in the installation process (usually
either admin.php or login.php).

A: That's PHP dying and giving up trying to run IRM, typically due to some
bug or misconfiguration.  Edit include/irm.inc and change the line

//$DEV = true;

to

$DEV = true;

(somewhere around line 36)

And then retry.  An error message should be printed on-screen, which will
tell you what's wrong.  If you can't understand the error, mail
irm-discuss@lists.sf.net giving the exact error message and details about
your system (OS, version, PHP version, Webserver details etc) and we'll try
and help you out.


Q: I get an error like this when trying to do pretty much anything:
Fatal error: Database Error: MDB Error: unknown error (BLAH BLAH BLAH)
[nativecode=1044]) in /var/www/html/irm/lib/IRMDB.php on line 242

The important thing here is the "nativecode=1044".  That's MySQL-speak for
"Access Denied".  Basically, your MySQL server isn't letting IRM into the
database.

This is not an IRM problem, it is a MySQL one.  Please check
http://dev.mysql.com/doc/mysql/en/access-denied.html for debugging info.


Q: When I log in, IRM gives me 'Undefined function mysql_connect in...'

Simple problem, simple solution.  When you compiled PHP (you did compile
it from sources, right?), you omitted the --with-mysql flag.  Simply run
./configure again, and make sure you use --with-mysql and
--enable-track-vars.


Q: Whenever I access IRM, I get the error "Call to undefined function:
loadextension()"

A: Your version of the core PEAR library is too old to provide the
loadExtension method.  We don't know which version first introduced
loadExtension, but you should probably upgrade to the latest version anyway. 
Run 'pear upgrade -o pear' to do this.  If you don't have the pear command on
your system, or do not have the necessary privileges to run this command,
please contact irm-devel@lists.sf.net and we'll try and help you with an
alternate means of upgrading.


Q: When upgrading my IRM installation from a version prior to 1.5.1, I get
the error "MDB Error: syntax error (SELECT ID+1 FROM computers ORDER BY ID
DESC LIMIT 1"

A: There is a bug in MDB version 1.2 which causes queries with LIMITs to be
rewritten improperly.  Please upgrade to MDB 1.3.0 or later by running the
command 'pear upgrade -o mdb'.  If you don't have the pear command on
your system, or do not have the necessary privileges to run this command,
please contact irm-devel@lists.sf.net and we'll try and help you with an
alternate means of upgrading.

Q: I get errors about sessions.

A: The chances are that you have a version of php installed without session
support, please try recompiling php with session support.

Q: Feature X doesn't seem to work

A: We break stuff sometimes.  Sorry about that.  Please send an e-mail to 
irm-discuss@lists.sf.net for help.  If you're pretty sure it's a bug, then
feel free to report the problem in our Bug tracker, available from
http://www.sf.net/projects/irm (click the 'Bugs' link in the top menu).
